---
layout: post
title:      "In the beginning, there was..."
date:       2020-01-20 19:41:45 +0000
permalink:  in_the_beginning_there_was
---


After a 22+ year career of building with wood, steel, and stone things had changed. They changed ALOT. 

Sometime incremental change is good. Sometimes it’s not. Sometimes it’s happening right beneath your nose and you'd be lucky if you could smell it; you might not even be able you get dogs to pick up on the scent. Through my life I've had the pleasure of not being afraid of change, I kind of like it. It’s exciting. It's new. It'll keep you interested. Like the unexpected chord change or key modulation in a great song that largely goes unnoticed but tickles some soft spot on the back of your neck making the hairs stand up. It draws you in and holds your attention. New technology and fun pieces of gear have always done this to me. I have a need to play with it and see how it works. 

On the flip side, I've also had the pleasure of hanging in there in anticipation of the big reveal. You know, that moment in a project where it all comes together; the moment that sometimes takes just a little too long to materialize? I can go on and on about how painters get all the love, unless your sink is overflowing or the lights don't work... then it’s the electrician or plumber (and rightly so). On most projects, however, it’s the painter. All the back work, the drudgery, the coordination, and, under most circumstances quite literally, blood sweat and tears that it took to erect a structure or design and mold a set of inert material into that perfect space that will include both form and function, and the paint goes on and ... BOOOM!.. the client says, "Well, NOW it's coming together." That’s the epiphany, the "Aha!" moment, for the client where they can begin to see the final product. It’s enough to bring a concrete crew to tears. 

This slow progression in tech has been slowly infiltrating even the construction industry. My first drill 20 years ago was corded. I’m pretty sure it’s still buried somewhere in my garage. But I'm an admitted gear guy who goes through bouts of Gear Acquisition Syndrome (GAS for short) from time to time. I dig tech and appreciate the work that goes into creative solutions to problems we sometimes don’t even know we have. So, when a 9.6v drill with a battery that I'd be lucky worked for a dozen or two screws came out... man, I HAD to have one because it was SOOO cool (in spite of the impracticality for most applications, of course). Most recently I was looking at a set of cordless tools that are 18 and 20 volt, seemingly not a huge jump numerically, but in terms of power this stuff is drastically better.  Especially when you consider that some platforms allow tools to run on 2 batteries at 36v, or even DeWalt’s 60v platform, GOOD LORD! This stuff is as powerful as a corded and has lithium ion rapid recharge with 5, 6, and even 9 ah batteries that store exponentially more power than that 9.6v could ever conceive and some are now *web connected to maximize performance*.  This last bit was an "Aha moment" for me. No longer are we dealing with just the tool. The future is inside the shell using data pulled from the ether to make this amalgam of plastic and metals so much more.

I feel like I missed something having my head down and plugging along for so many years. Running your own business your inundated by tech gimmicks to make management of workflow better. In allot of ways it has. One thing is for sure, over the last few years I've witnessed a shift in my industry and the expansion of technologies like 5G and the ability to control even hand tools via web-based software are the wave that will carry us into the future. It has real implications for management of devices, employee tracking, work flow management and a slew of other concerns I had and some I didn’t even know I had. I remember reading about the Internet of Things in college, but the concept was, until that moment, abstract to me. Sure I had an iPhone with all sorts of apps to help me manage projects and employees, I installed Ring devices, and even owned a web connected water heater, but for some reason it wasn’t quite real to me that in short order well be immersed in devices that input and output data until that "Aha" moment. It made it real for me that this is our future and I wanted to be a part of it.  
I hope to document my journey to being part of this future here. 



